The Go extension runs the below on each file save by default. You can turn them off in settings.
* Build (Turn off using `go.buildOnSave` setting)
* Lint (Turn off using `go.lintOnSave` setting)
* Vet (Turn off using `go.vetOnSave` setting)
* Format (Turn off by adding the below in your settings)
```
"[go]": {
    "editor.formatOnSave": false
}

```

The below can be enabled to run on file save by turning them on in settings
* Test
* Code Coverage

## Build on save

On each file save, the package that the file belongs to is built to find any compile errors. If the file is a test file then `go test -i -c -o` is used instead of `go build -i -o`

The binary generated by the build process is written to a temporary location as the purpose here is to only find compile errors and not to provide a binary/executable.

The below settings control the build on save feature
- go.buildOnSave
     - Use this to either turn off the build on save feature or enable it at package or workspace level
- go.buildTags
     - The tags provided here is used by the build and vet processes as well as any other Go tool used by this extension that takes the `-tags` flag
- go.buildFlags
     - Is used both by the build and test processes
- go.installDependenciesWhenBuilding
     - By default, `-i` flag is passed to speed up the build process. If you don't want the `-i` flag to be used, set `go.installDependenciesWhenBuilding` to `false`.

## Lint on save

A linter is a tool giving coding style feedback and suggestions.
By default this extension uses the official [golint](https://github.com/golang/lint) as a linter.

You can change the default linter and use the more advanced [Go Meta Linter](https://github.com/alecthomas/gometalinter)
by setting `go.lintTool` to "gometalinter" in your settings.

Go meta linter uses a collection of various linters which will be installed for you by the extension.

Some of the very useful linter tools:
* [errcheck](https://github.com/kisielk/errcheck) checks for unchecked errors in your code.
* [varcheck](https://github.com/opennota/check) finds unused global variables and constants.
* [deadcode](https://github.com/tsenart/deadcode) finds unused code.

If you want to run only specific linters (some linters are slow), you can modify your configuration to specify them:

```javascript
  "go.lintFlags": ["--disable-all", "--enable=errcheck"],
```

Alternatively, you can use [megacheck](https://github.com/dominikh/go-tools/tree/master/cmd/megacheck) which 
may have significantly better performance than `gometalinter`, while only supporting a subset of the tools.

To disable lint on save turn off `go.lintOnSave`

## Format on save

If you have Auto Save feature enabled, then you might want to disable the format on save feature so that the code doesnt keep changing under you. You can do this by adding the below in your settings:
```
"[go]": {
   "editor.formatOnSave": false
}
```

By default, `goreturns` is the tool used for formatting. You can choose `goimports` or `gofmt` by changing the `go.formatTool` setting

If you see your unused imports disappearing or unimported packages getting added automatically, thats the `goreturns` tool doing the magic behind the scenes.

